---
title: "Getting started"
source: https://partner.realestate.com.au/listing-upload/getting-started/
fetched_at: 2026-04-17T03:52:43.043Z
---

# Getting started

## On-boarding

There are 4 steps to getting started with REAXML;

1.  Understand your organisation’s obligations
2.  Generate your XML
3.  Engage in the Testing Process
4.  Set up your first 5 customers

### Step 1: Understand your organisation’s obligations

Providing listing content to us is a large part of our customers’ business - whether that’s your organisation, or another you’re representing. As a result, we need to ensure that you understand your obligations

-   As part of using the Listing Upload API, your organisation will be responsible for managing the data flow of real estate related information - both to and from our mutual customers.
-   Providing accurate and timely listing information enables us to provide the best possible customer experience
-   Talk to your customers about the implications of errors during the listing upload, to understand their ongoing requirements - eg, How does it affect your customers if a listing encounters an upload error?
-   Provide ongoing support for your organisation’s software, until it is both decommissioned, and no customer(s) continue to use it.

### Step 2: Generate listing data

All listings provided must abide by both the structural and element rules detailed in this documentation. Failure to do so will result in parsing errors, rejecting our customer’s new property listings and updates.

Files should contain all XML elements pertaining to new and updated listings. Any listing that doesn’t require creation or updating however, should be excluded from the XML feed.

\[Functional Specifications\] _Outlines the functionality of the REAXML system_

\[XML Format\] _Describes the purpose of each element/attribute, as well as further validation rules for the information therein_

\[Mandatory Fields\] _Outlines the mandatory requirements for uploading new listings to REA websites_

### Step 3: Testing Process

Due to the variety of property types and features seen in the Australian market, the REAXML is extensive and has to apply significant conditional validations. While the intention of your software may be to simply provide one or two types of listings, our mutual customers occasionally participate in the wider property market. Whether it’s a residential agency listing a carpark for lease on realcommercial.com.au, or a commercial agency wishing to advertise a staff member’s home on realestate.com.au – your organisation’s software must be able to provide the listing data in a validated REAXML format.

Uploading incorrect/false/flawed data causes many unwanted downstream effects, which can financially impact our mutual customers. As a result, we vigorously test any software that intends to feed listing data into the REA eco-system.

> Please note – to pass this testing stage, no errors can be generated during the creation of a range of property types (as requested by our support team, at the time of testing).

For XML Providers that are new to the Partner Platform Listing Upload API, we will provide you with a test Agency to use a Sandbox environment when testing the upload of all relevant listing types. These listings will not be visible on realestate.com.au, however, you can use the Reporting endpoint of the Listing Upload API to retrieve the status of the uploads. You will also be able to use your existing Partner Platform credentials for this.

Based on the potential customer impacts, XML generated by your organisation’s software will need to be put through a vigorous testing process to ensure that;

1.  Our mutual customers are not be subjected to a poor experience based on XML parsing
2.  REA’s support requirements for your software are not significant
3.  Your organisation’s software is capable of creating all current listing types used in REA Group products
4.  Your organisation’s software is capable of ‘importing’ the existing listing content of a customer’s account

During this process, our support team will be available to assist with any questions; they’ll also generate a report outlining any errors experienced during each testing phase, for each property type. This will be provided to you by email, but the raw errors will also be available on the Reporting endpoint of the Listing Upload API.

### Step 4: Setting up your first 5 customers

Once the testing phase is complete, our support team will setup your organisation’s first 5 customers, prior to launch. While we’ll facilitate the required changes within the REA Group system, your team will need to:

1.  Train your customers on the use of your software
2.  Configure your software to feed property listings to the correct AgentIDs (REA Customer accounts)
3.  Import an `extract` of any past listing data for each customer
4.  Automate or schedule XML feeds to our system

As most of our mutual customers have existing properties on our website (many of which have already attracted charges), we need to ensure that their REA listings are not impacted by changing between Partner software platforms. As a result, from time to time we will need to provide your organisation with an XML extract of pre-existing listings in a customer’s account; this needs to be imported into your database(s).

This extract will include all live listing data in a customer’s account, including elements like:

-   **A listing’s `uniqueID`, created by the provider system** REAXML uses a combination of `AgentID` (REA customer’s unique identifier) and `uniqueID` (3rd party identifier for the listing) to map subsequent updates to a listing. As a result, the existing `uniqueID` of a listing must be imported into your system, and fed back to ours within all updates.
    
    > Please note - It is against our website’s **Acceptable Use Policy** to duplicate or remove existing listings on our site, and provide ‘new’ replacements. Our publication systems are designed to prevent this.
    
-   **Links to external content and images.** `externalLinks` and `videolinks` refer to 3rd party hosted content (for example, 3D tours/walkthroughs, matterport content, YouTube clips) are provided as a simple HREF. Images however, are stored on our servers. While simple HREF’s are provided to access images as well, it is strongly recommended that your system download these into local storage.

## Authentication

For details on how to authenticate to APIs on Partner Platform please refer to [Authentication](../getting-started/authentication.md).

## Authorization

If you are authorized to upload listings on behalf of customers, you will see the below scope in the authentication response payload:

`listing:listings:write`
