---
title: "Functional specifications"
source: https://partner.realestate.com.au/listing-upload/specifications/
fetched_at: 2026-04-17T03:52:46.082Z
---

# Functional specifications

## XML Structure

A Document Type Definition (DTD) propertyList.dtd defines the REA XML structure. The current version of the DTD is available at [http://reaxml.realestate.com.au/propertyList.dtd](http://reaxml.realestate.com.au/propertyList.dtd)

> Please note: The DTD file will be updated from time to time. We recommend downloading a new copy when performing XML validation.

Any XML file provided should conform to the propertyList.dtd, and abide by the following principles:

## Document Validity

The XML system is specifically designed to omit the validation stage when parsing incoming XML files. The system will attempt to process documents that do not strictly conform to the propertyList.dtd, provided the required elements (as defined in the DTD) are included.

Invalid documents however, may produce undesirable results or fail to process correctly.

## Document Well-Formedness

The XML system will reject any XML documents that are not well-formed. As they are not considered recognised XML, error reports are not generated. It is your software’s responsibility to ensure this issue does not occur.

All XML documents are assumed to be in UTF-8. Special characters such as `&lt;`, `&gt;` and `&amp;` must be transformed to entity references. Unicode control characters `U+2028` and `U+2029` are invalid on the web and will be stripped by our ingestion process. Encoding attributes are required on the processing instructions. Entity references must match the specified encoding attribute or the file will be rejected as an ‘unrecognised’ format.

## Functional Elements

The following functional elements are referred to in the DTD:

### Agent ID:

The `agentid` element contains REA’s unique customer identifier. 6 alpha characters

### Unique ID / ForeignKey:

The `uniqueid` element contains the unique listing identifier, provided to REA at the time of listing creation. New listings require these to be uniquely generated by your software; existing listings have already had them generated (whether by your software or a previous XML partner) and require the element to map updates to that existing listing. 50 alpha-numeric characters or less.

## File Requirements

### File Names

We recommend XML file names follow the below pattern:

\[agentid\]\_\[yyy-mm-dd-hh-mm-ss\].xml

Requirements:

-   The filename is unique
-   The filename does not contain any spaces
-   The filename contains the `agentID`

### File Size

The XML has a 20MB file size limit.

### Compressed Files

The XML system accepts raw XML files, and those compressed using the ZIP archive format. These have an extension of ‘.zip’ or ’.ZIP’.

## Data Requirements

The following business requirements are enforced by the XML parser, and must be adhered to:

### New Listing Requirements

In order to create a new listing, we require a full compliment of all XML elements related to that listing.

Previous legacy ingestion methods (requiring a more limited data set) are still supported, however may be deprecated in future.

Additionally, each new property listing must contain certain required (mandatory) elements. These requirements and dependencies are largely based on business rules, and common sense. As an example, all ‘residential house’ listings require a bathroom value – why? Under Australian building and planning regulations, every recognised dwelling requires a bathroom.

Element definitions and their validation checks can be found under the `element` section of this site.

> Please note: The propertyList DTD does not define many of these elements as mandatory (even though they are required for new listings), because they may have been supplied in a previous XML file.

## Mandatory information for each new ‘property listing’

Mandatory elements required:

REAXML element

Residential Home Sale

Residential Rental

Residential Land Sale

Rural

Commercial Buy & Lease

Category

x

x

x

x

x

Status

x

x

x

x

x

landCategory

x

ruralCategory

x

commercialCategory

x

commercialListingType

x

streetNumber

x

x

x

x

x

street

x

x

x

x

x

suburb

x

x

x

x

x

postcode

x

x

x

x

x

price

x

x

x

x

headline

x

x

x

x

x

description

x

x

x

x

x

bedrooms

x

x

bathrooms

x

x

img (minimum 1, tagged as ‘main’)

x

x

x

x

x

dateAvailable

x

rent

x

area (building/floor area in SQM)

x

Conditional elements required:

REAXML element

Residential Home Sale

Residential Rental

Residential Land Sale

Rural

Commercial Buy & Lease

energyRating (`state` = ‘ACT’)

x

soldDate (`status` = ‘sold’)

x

x

x

x

soldPrice (`status` = ‘sold’)

x

x

x

x

commercialRent (`commercialListingType` = ‘Lease’)

x

## Requirements to Update a Listing

In order to update an existing listing, we require a full compliment of all XML elements related to that listing.

Previous legacy ingestion methods (requiring a more limited data set) have been deprecated.

## Requirements to update a Listing Agent profile

You are able to update the profiles of your real estate agents through REAXML uploads when using the Listing Upload API by assigning a `uniqueListingAgentID` to your agents. `uniqueListingAgentID` acts as an identifier for updating attributes on the listing agent.

**Prerequisites**

-   Updates through REAXML **must** be performed through the Listing Upload API.
-   Real estate agent has a `<uniqueListingAgentID />` associated with the `<listingAgent />` element. See the following sections for how to assign one to your real estate agent.

### Creating new listing agent with `uniqueListingAgentID`

_1\. When creating listings agents for the first time, provide a `<uniqueListingAgentID />`._

_2\. To perform updates to the listing agent in the future, provide same `<uniqueListingAgentID />` for that listing agent._

### Associating existing listing agents with `uniqueListingAgentID`

Each listing agent you wish to perform updates on must be first assigned a `uniqueListingAgentID`.

_1\. Submit a listing that contains your `<listingAgent />` together with a desired `uniqueListingAgentID` to be associated with it._

> **⚠️ In order to associate an existing agent to a `uniqueListingAgentID`, you MUST submit the `<listingAgent/>` element with the existing `<listingAgent />`’s name, email, and telephone with the desired `<uniqueListingAgentID />` tag**

_2\. To perform updates to the listing agent in the future, provide the same `<uniqueListingAgentID />` for that listing agent._

See [`<uniqueListingAgentID />` documentation](../elements/#uniquelistingagentid) for more information and examples.

## Date and Time Formats

Where required, date and time data must be in one of the following 24 hour formats:

-   YYYY-MM-DD-hh:mm:ss
-   YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS

A simple YYYY-MM-DD or YYYYMMDD entry may be used if time data is not available - leaving our system to assume a timestamp of 00:00:00. The default timezone used is `Australia/Melbourne`.

## Suburb Names

The suburb name contained within the `suburb` element must be a valid and proper suburb / locality name, as recognised by the relevant state government authority.

We are continually developing and improving our locations database, but have three requirements that all Australian place names must meet before an update or addition can occur:

1.  The suburb needs to be registered as a Delivery Area with a post code by Australia Post [https://auspost.com.au/postcode](https://auspost.com.au/postcode)
    
2.  The suburb needs to be an officially recognised location with a boundary (LOCB or SUB) by the federal government department, Geoscience Australia [https://placenames.fsdf.org.au/](https://placenames.fsdf.org.au/)
    
3.  They need to have an exact pinpoint (longitude and latitude) on Google Maps [https://maps.google.com](https://maps.google.com)
    

Any requests for the amendment or addition of suburbs can be sent to [](mailto:suburbs@realestate.com.au)[suburbs@realestate.com.au](mailto:suburbs@realestate.com.au)

## Image requirements

### Format & Compression

In order to reliably serve images with our website’s high traffic demands, our system downloads any property images, and hosts them on REA managed assets.

To manage this process, image content is provided as an HREF/URL within the `img` element of a listing’s XML.

Previous legacy methods (allowing `INLINE` and `ZIPPED` images) have been deprecated.

> Please note, slow storage solutions may produce a ‘timeout’ warning from our servers, failing the image retrieval. We recommend the use of a well-supported cloud based hosting service (eg, Amazon S3).

All images referenced in XML files need to be JPEG, PNG or GIF format - in a standard RGB colour palette; unfortunatley CMYK images will be downloaded, but rendered incorrectly on site.

In order to maintain an excellent user experience when serving images, low grade compression is applied to all images we receive.

### Resolution & File Size

**To obtain the best results, we recommend the following image specifications:**

Aspect Ratio

Minimum Pixel Dimensions

Recommended Pixel Dimensions

Recommended megapixel

Recommended DPI

4:3

800 x 600

1920 x 1440

2.7

72 to 96

3:4

800 x 600

1440 x 1920

2.7

72 to 96

16:10

800 x 500

1920 x 1200

2.3

72 to 96

16:9

800 x 450

1920 x 1080

2.0

72 to 96

3:1

800 x 266

1920 x 640

1.2

72 to 96

\*\*File size limit on all listing images: \*\* 60MB

In order to maintain an excellent user experience when serving images, low grade compression is applied to all images that we receive.

While our system accepts image resolutions outside of the above, they may be subject to a series of modifications in order to utilise them across our many 16:9 and 4:3 implementations.

## Boolean Formats

Where required, boolean data must be either:

-   ‘true’ or ‘false’
-   ‘yes’ or ‘no’

Any boolean based sub-element omitted during the creation of a new listing will default to ‘false’.
